everybody welcome to another episode of
impact Theory you are here my friends
because you believe that human potential
is nearly limitless but you know that
having potential is not the same as
actually doing something with it so our
goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
the quintessential rags to riches story
he was born to immigrant parents grew up
hard on the streets of East LA and
drifted in and out of biker gangs but
ultimately took himself from homeless to
self-made multi-billionaire his life
literally sounds like it's been ripped
from the pages of a Hollywood screenplay
his father left when he was just 2 years
old he had to sell newspapers and
Christmas cards at the age of 9 to help
support his family at one point he knows
young son were forced to live out of a
car he ended up having to sell
encyclopedias door-to-door to make ends
meet and even that success proof
fleeting leaving him homeless again at
age 36
but as with any great Hollywood tale
things were darkest just before the dawn
and he ended up turning a fortuitous
encounter with a hairstylist named Paul
into an idea for a company and despite
the backers pulling out at the 11th hour
the pair went on to launch and grow
through sheer force of will what is now
the global powerhouse Paul Mitchell a
company that made him a household name
and fantastically wealthy in the process
but that was just the beginning and less
than 10 years later he co-founded an
even more successful company called
Patron tequila placing in the very rare
pantheon of entrepreneurs who have had
multiple home runs and what makes his
success so beautiful is that he's done
it the right way putting his employees
first John Paul Mitchell Systems has had
turnover of less than 70 people in 35
years and he is baked philanthropy into
the core culture of all of his companies
so please help me in welcoming the
recipient of the Horatio Alger Award for
distinguished American
and the philanthropist and founder of
the peace love and happiness foundation
John Paul DeJoria thank you our large is
the greater reduction thank you very
much van Hyde America still works and
that's a perfect place to start so
reading your story it really feels like
the American Dream that I grew up with
as a kid that I'm not sure people think
of as the same American dream if you had
to define the American dream what would
you say it is that when you think that
there's all the opportunity you want you
don't know any better you go after it in
my generation it was a pleasure work
weather was of the variety boys club at
seven years old making flowerpots going
and selling them or Christmas cards at
9:00 or going on the streets at a law 11
years old delivering morning newspapers
for us it was fun to work now what do we
do with the money we gave to my mom so
we have a better way of life we've
gotten to high school my brother and I
saved a little bit of it for our car
which happened to be a junker but we
rebuilt in an auto shop but because we
for us it was a pleasure to work you
know just because while we had a job it
was so cool so it's a little different
in those days than today we also knew
that if we produce something we produced
it if we want to go somewhere you got to
do it if there's problems along the way
and I'd love to say this especially to
entrepreneurs one of the great secrets
in life to becoming successful whether
it's in a business whether it's working
with someone or for someone or in your
personal life and I learned this selling
encyclopedias door-to-door early 20s is
be prepared in life for a lot of
rejection because if you're prepared for
a lot of rejection that comes you don't
get turned off you don't get
disappointed like well I'm not going to
do this anymore no one thinks it's a
good idea it's like I say selling
encyclopedias not coming hundred doors
they slab them you're faced you must be
just as enthusiastic on door number 101
as door number one and that's what the
real secrets and growing up as kids in
downtown LA we all knew that we didn't
have a lot leaders a lot of things are
going to turn you down at seven trying
to sell
flowerpot on the street most people said
no but it's only 50 cents no no no
student waitress and all restaurant said
only 50 cents that's really great she
bought it from us we wouldn't built
another one that you that you vote that
really is like one of the secrets to the
universe of my opinion that ability to
stay as enthusiastic on door 101 as you
were on door 1 when you had it slammed
in your face over and over and over how
is that something you can teach like in
fact have you parted that on to your
kids like is that something that they
have adopted and if so how did you pull
that off
definitely it's just like your viewers
of your fabulous show here they've just
heard me say that now if they write that
on a piece of paper be prepared for a
lot of rejection whether some their
personal life that someone says you're
too old you're too fat you're too young
you're not going to do anything other
than yes you've got holes in your nose
you got things coming out your ears
whatever is other than yes this is
wonderful relicense can happen in life
as soon as people know that when
something goes wrong they look at a
piece of paper oh yeah that reminds me
the other quote that give people a lot
especially entrepreneurs is any business
you're in whether it's a service or
whether it's a product or anybody you
work with that has a product or a
service always make sure that your
product or your service is of the
highest quality you could ever make it
because you do not want to be you do not
want to be in the selling business you
want to be in the reorder business grant
it you've got to tell somebody what your
idea is
I mean how it's going to cure something
they may need but the quality has to be
so good that after that they want to
reorder it or if it's a one-time item
tell friends about it and if people
think in whatever they're doing in life
in the reorder business what is with a
personal relationship whatever you see
right now your to see again and again
and again it's going to enhance they'll
be ups and downs here's my product it's
so darn good you're going to use it
we started Paul Mitchell we had no money
but we knew our product was so darn good
that we got an ounce of enough people
they're going to be reordering it
because it was that quality service the
same way and I love that stands I mean
you can see that across all of your
company is that you're really going for
or the best of the best to make the
experience better and getting to
understand your technique and selling is
easy once you get to Paul Mitchell and I
do want you to walk us through that in a
second but how did you get through like
tactically to a sale in the
Encyclopaedia world like people don't
want to hear from you they're like how
do you overcome that what a question ask
me the average encyclopedia salesman
lasted three days I was at for three and
a half years and the way it worked in
those days it was commissioned only so
the way it worked is you went for an
interview they told you all you could
possibly make off commission only and we
were in training for three days it was a
presentation that was scripted we'd have
to memorize the whole thing we got in
the field you remember parts of it you
knock on doors you're not quite sure of
yourself a lot of doors are closed in
your face but what happens after a while
you start getting used to it and you see
what you can say or do that'll make it
better when you go back the next day
with your other salespeople once you see
what you do what did I say so let's say
knock on 100 doors get into one give 10
presentations to sell one book but then
when you get better and better at it
through your experiences and losses
along the way it sharpens you up we're
all of a sudden I got to a point where
if I gave three presentations I have no
lesson 1 order commission only but I
believed that I could do that I believe
that colleagues were the best set of
books because I school student could
read it wasn't like a college manual you
had to read and I was doing something
good for somebody so you have to believe
that what you're doing is good it's
going to benefit somebody and you learn
as you go ok do I look someone in the
eye so you want to know these things
look them in the eye all too often
people say it's hard to look some in the
eye because you feel uncomfortable of
course you do
they're not on the same wavelength your
honor the same frequency so what do you
do how do you ever come back you learn
these things along the way you look them
right between the eyes or at the
eyebrows looks like it like nobody I
I've been working on a book for a couple
of years or some of these tips and it's
not ready yet maybe next year I'll be
ready but uh there's all these thing and
of course smile smiles the most
wonderful thing God gave us and you
don't smile when you first talk to
somebody you smile before you know
on their door if your day sucks you fake
it hi how you doing when you smile
everything changes people change it's
interesting I've heard you talk about
that before how even on a phone call if
you smile on the other end like and if
somebody's having a bad day you were
like if you walk into an elevator and
people are like totally turned in on
their own world that just a smile can
literally change their brain chemistry I
think that's really really a powerful
reminder how much do you think that
doing the the door-to-door sales
sharpened you trained you to be
successful in business tremendously
update still sold encyclopedias
door-to-door all my children would be
inclined and made to do that for at
least three months what an experience
you're on your own you make no money
unless you do something and they're not
even expecting you
you go there door-to-door and try and
get in and try to tell some of these
books are gonna be good for you here's
how you use them yeah I really hope that
people listening heard that that if that
was the thing you would still make your
kids do it because it's such a profound
proving ground it's a way to sharpen
your skills it's a chance to handle
rejection so I did door-to-door sales
for a while I was not the man you were I
assure you I did it probably for about
three or four months but it it is the
loneliest like it is so awkward like
they don't want you there and you have
to like you have to literally each and
every time talk yourself up get in that
like space where you can come put the
smile on and to the the people that are
able to do that and develop the internal
game in order to get to that point I
think is is just super critical and a
lot of people want the easy answer not
realizing that going through the hard
thing is a thing that's ultimately going
to toughen you up right you're
struggling hard times will follow you
you've got to go do something how do you
know what to do sometimes you don't
sometimes you don't know what the hell
video you just out there doing yet
and you just kind of learn from your own
experience or go with whatever your
heart tells you to do and if something
goes wrong you ask some guy here's what
I said was that right you just kind of
improve yourself but many times if
you're there you don't have an answer go
with your heart give an answer just say
I really don't know but I'm going to
find out and we'll get back to you
I love that attitude like were you
actively saying in your head as you
approached going up to knock on these
doors that each one of these is an
opportunity to learn something mine kind
of was this is the beginning okay was
successful people do the things that
successful people what to do I'm sorry
about that
you literally repeat oh yeah that's
where I learned that what phrase is a
great phrase my gosh and then at the end
over three or four hours and then you
still haven't gotten the door giving a
presentation the second face that God
knows where it came from but just came
to me was when the goings tough the
tough get going one more drawer one more
smile and it was tough it was I think a
week before I even sold my first set of
books to I just just kept going I love
that there's no secret formula to your
success that it's really been these
basic building blocks convincing
yourself to do it
in fact walk people through how do you
go from you show up one day and your
wife is walking out the door
and she hands you the keys and you know
basically she leaves you you're in your
darkest hour you've you've explained
pretty well like how you don't get stuck
at level one right well that was level -
one or two okay that time II I had been
the master of ceremonies for the sports
vacation recreational vehicle show that
weekend had something new to do the
following week but uh whatever little
money had the bank she took that check
coming from them wasn't coming in for
one week and needless to say she didn't
pay the rent I didn't know it in paid
electric bill within three days we were
out of there was kind of down and I
think at that time coming from an
environment we you run across a lot of
things that are very disappointing I
just looked at okay I have no money have
a kid okay got ahold of an old car that
was loaned to me we got a house now we
could put you know some of her her stuff
our blankets that go and they're close
to going there right we'll store the
rest of my mom's house I was too proud
to tell my mother mom I'm down and out I
got a kid you know fella split mom Cambo
room back my son makes me I was stupid
this happened twice in my life I was
ashamed to even tell her so idea that
there were coke bottles everywhere in
those days or soda pop bottles two cents
for little one five cents for a big one
I went around collecting them which
helped with ecology cash them in in
those days every grocery store
liquor store had to give you the money
and how did you keep going though like
how did you not okay I'm out of survival
mode now so now I'm there and most
people stay there forever
like how did you get to the next level
and the next and the next well for me it
was I knew I had to work plus had this
little kid so I would drop them off at
two and a half years old to little
nursery school that time the one I went
to was free the city actually had one I
couldn't have to have a job maybe other
guys we were around and have jobs I knew
I needed a job to take care of myself my
son and be able to one day have enough
money to get an apartment to move on I
plan things like that out did you say
okay list item number one apartment or
job or like how did you put the plan
together
number one was just survival period and
not having told my mom when I'm going
through again was pride stupid pride but
then after that it was one thing led to
the other had one thing the survival
part was saying care if then it was okay
what do I want to be doing and how do I
do that well the first thing is you got
to have an income you got to have a job
they just started getting it together
and things fell in place now along the
way there were jobs I had where I was
fired at those jobs for the dumbest
reasons in the world but each one I was
fired from taught me something there
were three companies the beauty industry
I worked with I was a vice president of
two of them and the national manager of
one of them and each one of my divisions
did very well I was there in one cup
case I was a trainer for the whole
company and they grew 50% million
dollars I was there I surely after I
started with 700 bucks John Paul
Mitchell Systems two years later
something flashed in my mind Wow there
is something called fate there is
something called your destiny
if you don't do it be open it could do
it for you had I not worked for all
three companies it would have been
impossible to start John Paul Mitchell
Systems with $700 to any amount of money
each company I reflected taught me a
different thing one about the beauty
industry and distribution the other one
about making products are bringing top
artists and the other one about how to
make these bottles these products were
to get it all three we're stepping
stones for me and I never knew it goes
back to a
you're talking about rejection be
prepared for a lot of rejection if every
time something goes bad where you
rejected or turned down for something if
luckily remember that be prepared for it
well this was a surprise was surprised
to me I didn't expect it but what
happened it was well it's meant to be to
do something else I was just meant to do
something else look at the backer our
backer pulled out I needed a half a
million dollars Paul Mitchell start John
Paul McKay and this story's in cry have
to have half a million dollars I knew
that our backer pulled out the last but
never got a diamond I stopped doing
everything I was doing how last minute
are we talking here like that day we
were just had to pay for the artwork a
thousand dollars there we had the
silkscreen er set up the bottle company
set up the filler set up was all set up
a 30-day critics they knew me in the
industry I did well was going to go good
now what was a blessing on that one we
struggled but we believed what we had
was the best the blessing was we each
had 30 percent the investors would give
40 percent we end up with owning the
company have you ever talked to the
investor that pulled out he's got to be
kicking himself what what an incredible
opportunity it's like a master's class
in business right there other sesame
yeah but so many people shut down with
necessity and I mean look it's it's not
a surprise that with that attitude that
you've gone on to have the kind of
success that you do and the thing that I
try to really get the next generation of
entrepreneurs to understand is there's
there's like just tactical business
principles that you have to understand
and some of its pure psychology and some
of it is just knowing that there's
always another solution really if people
break down the things you do and ending
with the final thing that I think you
have a real gift for which is the things
that you're telling yourself to stay
motivated to keep pushing forward to
understand that you know when you're at
that dark moment that there is a path
out of this and that you have to look
for that and keep pushing and smile like
all these like really basic things that
you've stacked on top of them so how
then do we go from that to the Paul
Mitchell that we know today well
obviously it was head to mouth for the
first two years but we knew we had the
best there was we just kept on working
it and working with it
telling hairdressers will be the
first one to never cut you out most
people have done in the beauty industry
and said hey we're only going to be in
salons a lot of companies all of a
sudden they're in department stores or
in drug stores and supermarkets but we
kept on telling people if you ever and
you still do today see Paul Mitchell in
the drugstore supermarket it's either
counterfeit or from the black/gray
market we don't put it there we only put
in salons but the demand for paul
mitchell exceeds where you could get it
it's only in salons and maybe only in
10% of all salons so people know it's
the best there is and people can
actually pay full retail in the salon
for paul mitchell put it on their
drugstore shelf up to $2 and they
celebrate bottle they have because
people don't know when it caught they
just know it's really really good stuff
so we kind of kept with what we had and
always make sure any new product we came
out with was the best it could possibly
be well what's interesting about the
beauty industry and quality my first
three products are still some of the
best sellers we've had them down for
almost 37 years it's that quality make
sure your service or your products the
very best it is plus we gave back along
the way and we gave back along the way
we were the first never to test on
animals and say you can't Wow we were
ridiculed or competitors put us down
because they were doing it 10 15 years
later they had somebody else do it so
they couldn't say we were doing it we
helped change things and we were very
proud that we did that so he kept our
values and kept it olena business and
realized you're so free lunch we kept on
working you seem to have a really strong
internal set of values when did that
begin to take shape in terms of policies
that you could implement an attorney was
it right away did that take time when I
worked for other companies some of them
not mentioning names were so bad they
would treat people the old way I'm the
boss here's what you're going to do
because I'm the boss right or there were
times for example when maybe had a
dollar for lunch you can't get a lot for
a dollar so I just knew that that's how
I was and if I had a company that I had
a control of my gosh everyone's going to
be treated the way I wanted to be
treated so the minute we could afford it
everyone had free lunch whether you had
money or not you have free lunch we pay
for it for you
our people will pay for that so we
started doing things for people that I
wish happened to me maybe that's part of
fate maybe because a lot of things along
the way weren't so good that as things
started getting good it was so easy for
me to share with other people so easy to
do that people sometimes don't save
money as soon as we possibly could
afford it we started profit sharing
where at the end of every year it will
take that profit sharing and putting a
retirement fund for you is yours it's
yours here are so many years it goes
with you no matter where you go but it
sure is it's your money that's really
incredible and how much do you think
that that sort of Golden Rule approach
has fed into your ridiculously low
turnover rate which is literally almost
unprecedented I mean that's crazy I try
and treat people exactly the way they'd
want to be treated exactly the way I
would have want to be treated
I'm happy with my people I realize my
people aren't the company if my people
go my god the company goes people are
your company and they take care of the
customer the customer is always right no
matter what so what do we do so the
customers happier if somebody's unhappy
would try and discover why and because
you treat people this way and we'd love
them you walk in our company it's love
if you go to the front desk here in
Century City this girl just has the
biggest Mustang hi welcome to John Paul
Mitchell Systems she loves up what she
does our big problem is we don't have
turnover we have so many people out of
work for us and the things you got away
for somebody to die now as we drill
we'll add one or two on obviously at a
time sure and we're pretty big now
because we're in 96 countries patrones
the same way we're in about 130
countries in the world and even when I
went to visit our people in Mexico to
our facility we make patron it's made
with love
we have about 15 1800 people down there
and I have several of them does it upset
you about what's going on the United
States where they may close more of the
border and you know do you guys want to
go to America and everyone acid are you
kidding we can free lunch if we work at
night we get free dinner here you're so
nice to us you pay is good money now
we're fine here we want to go that's how
you take care of people anywhere in the
world you don't boss them around
you include what you're doing and how do
you systematize that because I get it if
you're there every day like you like
every everybody I've ever heard talk
about you and some of them are people
that like I know know like everyone says
you just exude like what you put on for
the camera is you like that's really how
you are and it's there's a warmth to it
there's a sense of love and appreciation
and but how do you systematize that how
do you make sure that it pervades your
company even when you're not there we
let all the companies know what we do
and why we do it we have a culture we
give you an example we have a gun almost
120 Paul Mitchell schools throughout the
United States cosmetology schools every
one of them has to be involved in our
culture not only do you learn how to be
a great hairdresser hair stylist / a
colorist right but you have to be part
of the culture they raise money every
school we have has to raise money every
year part of that money goes to local
community parts of the nation in part to
the world they learn in school was good
to give and help others out they also
learn what our principles are now we
started a John Paul Mitchell Systems a
very unique position the way that's
running her name is marek or dean and
she is our ambassador of corporate
culture so what she does is goes around
to our whole company make sure everybody
is reminded of our culture what we do
all new people must go through the
doctrine a Chinon what our culture is
all about and then recently because we
do so much stuff people don't know about
we started a magazine over the internet
that goes through a whole universe in
their universes that shows what we do is
that cut me to share and change the
entire world whatever you want connected
with us is part of that whether its
buying a new Coast Guard Cutter for the
sea shepherd to protect wells in the
open seas whether it's taking care of
7,000 orphans in Africa whose parents
have died of AIDS
whether it's redoing Appalachia whether
it's here in Los Angeles Crystal's
getting homeless back to work they're
all part of it all the things we're
doing this country so they also like
they're a part of it well when you're
part of something really big and people
take care of you and love you and you
know something went wrong you can
immediately get a hold of the founder
going to cut me me and talk to me
directly I live mainly in Austin Texas
but if I'm probably in the world which I
do a lot you know my executive
assistants say we want to talk to JP
privately
whether it's Paul Mitchel John Paul Peck
of Rock patron all companies do exactly
the same thing we try to take care of
people if someone screws up we remind
them hey how would you like that that
was you
you wouldn't like that something I want
to share with your guests also if I may
is if anytime someone screws up don't
ever ever reprimand them in public
always reprimand them behind closed
doors one-on-one so nobody hears if they
hear it they're going to be covert
hostile to you they'll stab in the back
every chance it's the opposite for
praise if someone does something good
praise them loudly in front of as many
people as you can even if it's one
person it makes them feel good and they
were acknowledged in front of others
little things like this helps keep that
culture to it now I think those little
things are super crucial the obvious
question is to say okay how do we look
for the right person to hire into that
environment I'm going to ask the flip
how can a potential employee evaluate a
company what should they look for in a
company and what how should they be in
an interview to to get the job in life
we don't always know what we want to do
I didn't always know but in life we find
out quickly what we don't want to do so
we very very taught me try and look at
what it is you want to do you're going
to be the boss what is that you enjoy
being around what makes you get up and
say I can't wait to hear the office we
have people Paul Mitchell working at 7 8
o'clock and I don't have to one day I
walked in there was tenable what are you
doing there we want to finish our
projects you don't have to we all went
out to dinner I was like God because
they love what they're doing so one is
find out what you want to do and then
try it out whatever you can about the
company now if you go online there's
going to be nothing but nice stuff or in
the newspapers but if you get a chance
to talk to them when you go down to be
interviewed just Esav if you wouldn't
mind talking to a couple of the people
receptions a great person you walk how's
it going how you like working here is it
a happy place or just very businesslike
no one's going to represent
for that be sure when you go in your
interview a lot of people aren't
confident enough to do this it's a small
thing look the person in the eye or look
between the eyes or on their eye rather
cat-like in the eye okay and just be
just relax the more uptight you are the
more you try and be exactly perfect the
more you turn somebody off they see that
all day long just go in and be yourself
if you're higher for being yourself
you're going to like it if you're hired
for being somebody else that walks
interview you're not going to be happier
than iring you be yourself if it flows
they ask you questions you have the
right answers it's the right thing for
you you're set if it doesn't work while
you're being interviewed for you or the
other person it's not the right thing
for you maybe there's something else
waiting for you
you're jesting could be elsewhere yeah
very true how did you when did you first
start thinking about philanthropy
because in the beginning I'm sure it's
just like trying to get the business off
the ground and but it really does seem
foundational to your companies when did
that really solidify into these are the
causes that we care about this is what
we're gonna get another beautiful
question it started when I had nothing
at six years old my mother would take my
brother night at downtown LA department
stores the Christmas little trains going
around puppets we thought we were the
coolest kids to see that and I was six
years old at the time and my mom gave my
brother night eight dime and it's just
something you never forget his boys I
want you each told half this time walk
over and putting the red bucket of that
man ringing the bell and we did we said
mom why do we give that guy a dime now
I'm older than you are in those days had
I would buy two big Coca Cola's or three
candy bars Wow with the law go okay
and she said boys it's because that's a
group called The Salvation Army and they
help people have no home and no food she
says and we want to do some because in
life there'll always be someone has
lesson you don't forget a boy's this
year we could only afford a dime because
we don't have much waiting for one night
book we did something and if we couldn't
afford this time I'd be volunteering
ringing the bell with them always do
something in life if you can either with
your time or might help somebody else
out and I
we forgot that it just came as part of a
culture start with normal and what are
some of the most emotional impactful
moments for you as a part of your
philanthropy I think going to Africa the
first time and meeting some of the 7,000
children ages one day to 12 years old
all parents have died of AIDS are the
kids that are thrown away all the kids
are brought through these various
orphanages where we feed and we protect
and we educate them when the most
touching moments on that was while I was
there we had a photo shoot we bought the
orphans and wit was a photo shoot we did
a campaign one year we had all these
African children her hands and one
little boy will guess his age to be a
year and half two years old was only one
not smiling and the story behind him was
that he was pulled out of a trash can
the day before dropped off as they were
leaving they said well no cotton they
brought him with him there and the boy
was just bewildered you know Trash Can
as skinny as can be and the other kids
were you know eating a little candy bars
that were given to him eating a soda pop
said before we left the photo shoot he
picked up a soda pop and drank it and we
were just hugging him and the kids
smiled it was like tears come out of the
eyes you know just beautiful if I could
share this also with your people in a
very nice lesson to learn about giving
is in life whenever you can do something
for somebody else and ask nothing in
return not even a thank you
nothing just do it because it has to be
done you'll get the greatest toy you'll
ever have in your life
great aside there's no drug no nothing
that'll surpass that and I know what
highs all about of a child in 60s
anyways but you know this is a greatest
time in the world the great sign in the
world you can there's nothing no that
that will surpass it tell me a little
bit more about grow Appalachia so your
system there is pretty interesting it's
sort of a don't give a man a fish teach
them to fish oh yeah
started in about 2010 when people were
hungry on food stamps and I found out to
one of my staff members there's about a
hundred and fifty thousand families on
food stamps I so let me try and take on
half of them if I could at least so I
paired up with Bria College to give me
assistance I paid for it all and the
deal was to go into the country where
these people are trying to get with
churches community centers and
would pay for the irrigation the seeds
everything and Brea would help me with
some volunteers and I paid a couple
people full-time to work for us we would
teach people how to grow their own
vegetables first year was this grow your
own vegetables to feed you and your
family and here's how you can things and
jars for the winter so you have food all
year long that was pretty good
phase two would be this phase two is now
you know how to do it you grow more what
do you think fine people around you that
need some or help them grow stuff
because you don't know I don't know but
start selling it in local grocery stores
or farmers markets has organically grown
produce now you have an income pretty
still going to the third year we have
chickens going in there here's a dozen
chickens now you have eggs and then we
had a couple get into bees now you have
honey all of a sudden they were totally
self-sufficient and many of them out
there now with little businesses because
of it I believe today we're about thirty
five thousand that we feed off your own
garden no don't work don't expect the
government to make the changes the major
ones if they help out god bless we want
them help out the people have to do it
it's we the people of the United States
of America you want to change how do you
do it where do you volunteer to do it
you know how do you volunteer to do it
you want to change good what groups
doing I'm going to be part of them I'm
going to be part of we the people that
change it not wait forever we to give
something to me because it's the thing
to do I'm going to make things change
today more people are involved in
changing the world for the better for
the people of planet than ever ever
before in June a movie is going to come
out called good fortune I worked on it
with Joss Tikal won many awards and it's
all about how to go from nothing to
something but change the world while
you're doing it but it's called good
fortune of going on TV and I'm on TV all
the time your major stations
occasionally have me come on and say JP
you represent the 1% of all people what
do you think of this - the 1% of the 99%
I think you should pay more taxes what
do you think and I look right now I and
they say can we talk to a flea here of
course JP that's why you're on
I am the 99%
I am the 1% it's we the people
isn't it the American dream to have a
chance to do so good you could buy nice
things for you and your family and if
along the way you give back isn't that
wonderful
it's We the People and by the way did
you know at that time there's about 150
of us and we're all billionaires most of
us came from nothing made of the
American Way but do you know that we're
all billionaires we've all pledged 50%
of our wealth while we're alive or after
we die to change the planet for the
people and the plan for the better you
want to people are members of this now
have you ever talked about it Bill Gates
Warren Buffett I go on and on these
people give so much back already and so
much dedicated after they die to change
the planet so 1% versus 99% how about we
embrace one another because that
so-called 1% is doing so much and in
many cases more than our government is
doing tilt the rest out so if you had an
ultra successful friend come to you and
say ok look it's time now that I really
do something meaningful with my money
what would you encourage them to do
first of all what either upset you most
about the planet whether it's your
country your city or the world what
upset you most when you hear something
or what do you see wrong that you would
love to change even in a small way if
you could what do you see something big
what touches your heart not what looks
good if I do this I'll look like a hero
what touches your heart now I love that
do you think that there are
entrepreneurial principles that need to
be applied to some of the the more cause
oriented things so I think when people
think about an entrepreneur they usually
think purely about profit and so when it
gets into NGOs and nonprofits it's like
well does it really make sense to me
it's like what we really need to make
change is the money no question but it's
also people that know how to think like
what you're doing with grow Appalachia
where it's turning it into something
that becomes self-sustaining
ok cells exactly and the way to do that
is take someone like yourself anyone out
there
so charity really like there's a strong
possibility it may not be managed the
way you would manage a for-profit
business what do you do you go and help
them here's how you merchandise for your
product is your charity that's your
product your cause well how do I get
this disseminated to more people how do
I do that how do i do within the budget
we have how do I expand within the
budget we have if we need more money how
do i creatively help raise more money so
that it comes to a good cause of the
other end so all too often
businesspeople get involved and don't
think about well let me help the
organization do better that's a good way
they can all go our super random
question for you what are three things
that you taught your kids that you think
have helped them be successful one is be
prepared for a lot of rejection the
other is whatever service or business
you're involved in a thing you do make
sure it's the highest quality there is
and always remember kids and they do
success and shared is failure
I love that Club and we don't spoil our
kids my kids grew up even my last one it
was now nineteen half years old when he
was 12 and we were doing good in
business his allowance every week was
$12 when he was 13 was $13 but between
13 to 14 he had to sit down with dad he
says dad you were born a long time he
says give me $13 dad I go to the movie
theater one time that and a coca-cola or
any soda bub not from Elko anything the
money's gone have no more money left dad
he says it costs more I said son no
you're right you are so I upped it to
$20 but none of my kids thank God my
kids aren't spoiled they work they know
the value of a dollar they even have a
job like well his job was full-time
student and if they could study great if
they couldn't during that I would take
him to work with me or something like
that right some of my kids just did some
on their own you know and then once of
course are able to actually have a
regular job they start looking for jobs
on their own I had one son my oldest to
start his own little business with no
money trying to get an artist to go to a
salon and train them and he would have a
little money in between you know it's
amazing what they do
Michael a my 32 year old brilliant and
she's vice-chairman of John Paul
Mitchell Systems that's another thing
too if you have any kids good example of
this one she says I said
he started go started as a reception she
says no I only did her work in the
warehouse I'm gonna have every job in
the company's back really is it cool so
she stayed there until she learned it
and went through all of it well you
better believe our people love us enough
she knows us so then several years ago
she became our director of future
development right did what she did so
well everyone loved her my own pressin
said you should promote her device Jim
that's where she is it's really really
interesting because I'm imagining them
all following you're like the four peas
and then make sure they have the best
product and so yet for peers we've got a
profit people be positive and help the
planet I love to be positive how did
that make the list so of all the things
in the world that you could say are like
the secrets that being positive is one
of the main things that people need to
do how did you happen on that in life
whether it's personal or people around
me when you see people that are positive
but look at something good and something
bad they took place they move along in
life faster they're veteran and people
want to be around these people I mean
too often people gossip the one gossip
person wants be around the other person
that gossips but they don't realize when
you gossip you're saying something heard
about somebody else you're telling
everybody what if part of it was wrong
you had to go out and tell every person
you told this oh I'm sorry it was wrong
tell everybody you told it's not going
to happen so it's things you learn about
don't gossip don't belittle people if
you don't have to god please don't try
and look at the positive angle what good
could come out of something and that
possum this is going to make you live
longer happier and wake up in the
morning happy not oh my god I got to go
to work I can't wait til I get home I
want to retire because people are not
positive they're not happy and what
happens they retire they hate their job
they retire three or four years later
their debts they have nothing to do that
positive attitude be around positive
people encourage positiveness if you
find yourself walking around just
complaining all the time around people
that complain a lot man move or just try
and do something different change your
life being positive and a positive
attitude is find something positive and
something bad makes you look for
solutions
when I was down and out okay boom Oh pop
bottles let's get the pop bottles cash
em in I love that because I until you
said that I knew that people listening
we're thinking what's easy for you to be
positive you're a billionaire so but the
fact that you were positive even when
you had to be looking for the bottle
recycled to make sure need to get you
99-cent meals
that's incredible alright I have a
question in today's environment where it
is the business landscape is so crowded
and it seems like all the good ideas
have already been taken how can you go
in and create space and build a company
in today's environment the best way to
explain it is by actually doing
something let's take a huge business
throughout the world one of the biggest
telecommunications you have giant phone
companies chefs servers that on your
cellular phone is almost like a
lifestyle male right well how does
someone get on that industry and
obviously you get all the Giants you're
going up against that multi millions of
billions of dollars how do you do it
well you look at what the industry is
lacking and pull the industry into it
give you an example is one of my latest
companies Rock ROK Mobile Rock Mobile
believe it or not we found the opening
something how we did it for $49 a month
on your cell phone any cell phone any
smartphone we found a way to give people
all their telephone calls to United
States of Mexico 500 international
minutes free their texting their data
all their music over 20 million songs
$100,000 worth of accidental life
insurance telemedicine seven days a week
24 hours a day adoptions on the other
than the phone with you talking you see
what's going on now and pick your
carrier who works best for you here now
how do we pull this off with these
Giants well we did a little research we
know people want their lifestyle if
possible to be on that cell phone if
possible but a lot of people can't
afford a cell phone or they pay so much
money average person I talk to pace one
two sometimes three hundred bucks a
month go international goes crazy on you
but uh so we did this we went to for
example the music companies the big
music companies know there's Warner
Brothers University of Sony right and
said God
we'd like to be another avenue for you
and your artist one you don't have right
now yeah it sounds pretty good we give
you a piece of it all good went to five
hundred five hundred other labels got
them come onboard went to big carrier
and said look we know that you have
something called the churnin a new word
I learned where every year twenty
twenty-five percent of your business you
lose to another carrier who has a better
deal here's what we have it that dent we
had just the music when the texting the
data and that right they said yeah we
could probably get some people back with
that and then we were able to go to
insurance companies and say we're
presenting we have all these millions
and by the way we took out a patent we
have the patent on an app that would
have whether it's a medical insurance
any kind of insurance on there and
little by little they all got involved
all of a sudden out weren't
telecommunications in a very very big
way but the better part of it is this
how do I go back to my startup tell
those people out variety Boys and Girls
Club in East LA for I would pay 25 cents
for would itself their fifty cents is a
big wooden flowerpot right so we thought
let's help them out let's help the inner
city in New York will sell part of them
is help people out so what we're doing
right now is with our profit is they're
saying kids we want to help you have a
good allowance so if you'd like to you
have the service for yourself or your
family or anybody you know we're to give
you five dollars every single month for
a year
that's your allowance if 10 people have
it that's fifty dollars a month okay if
a hundred people have it and people
cancel whatever they want but they're
still on there that's five hundred
dollars a month for one year it's how to
have something so low everybody wants
that it needs it it changes the
landscape and for us and volume we'll
make money but it shares it along the
way when you share success on shared is
failure and that's how Rock is just
exploding right now just taking off all
underground word-of-mouth
that's one I'll give you another one
real quick we found out that 3.7 billion
people have the cold sore virus o2 every
three people have it right
somebody camping once a few years goes
to JP we've been working with Native
Americans universities on a gel that
comes out of plants its plant-based gel
right and someone has a cold sore you
put it on and in most cases they feel
the tingle the cold store doesn't come
out if it comes out you put on every
hour and almost everyone we gave it to
it's gone in less than two days I said
really so we started giving it to people
all of a sudden people are saying oh my
god this gets rid of that cold sore and
it's invisible in less than two days so
I spent millions of dollars during the
double-blind studies and everything else
so now for like you know less than 30
bucks someone can buy a tube of audio a
ubi oh is what it's called au for gold
by Oprah Nature a ubi oh they go online
and buy it they go to Target they can go
to Rite Aid they could go to you know
all these beers are Dean distribution
yeah sorry in distribution you just got
it out there because the people usin
said wow this is something
this stuff is unbelievable right and
there's nothing you know large chains
that have it but for sure right it has
it at Target and CVS has it also so we
could go in that industry and say we
have something new we have something
different it's realistically priced were
not ripping everybody off so as people
think about it look at even these big
businesses what niche would you like to
see happen cell phones God we'd love to
see it less expensive no limitations
around all these other goodies look for
that niche what does it need how can you
put it together and help the environment
along the way if you could do it yeah
looking for ways to disrupt people and
really fundamentally take a different
approach so yeah take an old industry
look at it what's something that we can
bring from today that maybe companies of
old aren't thinking about sometimes it's
even just new technology to modernize
the systems to make it simpler oh yeah
all right I have one final question for
you but first where can these guys find
you online well I don't have a website I
cannot even do internet but the best way
to find me is go to John Paul Mitchell
Systems that's one way okay then we have
here's our philanthropy art the other is
go to patron spirits comm see what we're
doing there or you go straight to my
foundation it's called JP's peace love
and happiness
family foundation you can see some
things we do some things were involved
with very cool or I think you just go
online type my name and all kinds of
stuff all kinds of stuff comes amazed of
what people say but also it's good so
that's cool get a chance when it comes
out go see a good fortune I did it to
try and spread the word of overcoming
obstacles so you could do it no question
I'll check that out in a heartbeat I've
read a synopsis of it it sounds amazing
I mean it's your life story so I cannot
wait alright my final question what is
the impact that you want to have on the
world while he was here on this planet
it is you inform he did something to
make the planet better off because he
was here he paid really good rent it was
happy because of it all of that
john-paul thing she's always present
later on this is I can't thank you
enough
guys this is somebody like he said all
you need to do is drop his name into
Google and I promise you an avalanche of
amazing things are going to befall you
the amount of philanthropy that he's
doing is incredible and when you look at
his for-profit companies and see that
they have as a part of their very DNA a
philanthropic spirit it's incredible and
it is not surprising to me even though
mathematically I can't make it make
sense it isn't surprising to me that
he's had such small turnover when you
put people first when you actually care
not pretend to care but you actually
care about them and you care about what
happened to them and you're the kind of
person that is able to see the positive
even in your darkest moments that even
in your darkest moments you are looking
for the path through you're looking for
the next level up and when you get there
you're looking for the level above that
and never from a predatory standpoint
and here's something that I didn't
understand ten years ago so let me tell
you when he says that they made a
promise to the beauty industry that they
would always sell through the salons
he left hundreds of millions of dollars
on the table and every day that he
refuses to do that
he's literally leaving money on the
table but he's doing it because he knows
that if he migrates away from those
people who are working in the salons and
moves it out to broader and broader
distribution that it will hurt the
people that helped him build it so why
does he do it
to be honorable that's it it isn't a
smart business move she's literally
doing it to be honorable I respect that
more than you know
guys this is somebody that you're going
to want to research and see the way that
he thinks about the world and the way
that he thinks about business because to
me it is the future the generations
coming up are going to make the demand
that every company has like this and
you're going to need to be this way
whether you want to be or not needs been
doing it since the 80s it is astonishing
he is leading the way for an entire
generation follow that lead alright guys
this is a weekly show if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care okay everybody thanks so much for
joining us for another episode of impact
Theory if this content is adding value
to your life our one ask is that you go
to iTunes and stitcher and rate review
not only does that help us build this
community which at the end of the day is
all we care about but it also helps us
get even more amazing guests on here to
share their knowledge with all of us
thank you guys so much for being a part
of this community and until next time be
legendary my friend
[Music]